# text-classification
#(MULTILABEL TOXIC COMMENT CLASSIFICATION USING MACHINE LEARNING)

This paper presents a novel application of Natural Language Processing techniques to classify unstructured text into toxic and nontoxic categories. The classification of toxic comments is a well-researched area with many techniques available. However, effectively managing multi-label categorization still requires a considerable amount of work. In this thesis, we performed a classification experiment on over 1.6 million comments from the Jigsaw toxic comment challenge data available on Kaggle. We aimed to optimize a model to identify six different categories of hate speech. Initially, we implemented a baseline model using a simple vectorization technique and logistic regression. Subsequently, we compared this model with another model. After thorough analysis, we found that a fine-tuned transformer-based model called Logistic Regression yielded the best performance, achieving an accuracy of 0.93. If we talk about the toxicity of a comment, in the current century, social media has created many job opportunities and, at the same time, it has become a unique place for people to freely express their opinions. Meanwhile, among these users, there are some groups that are taking advantage of this framework and misuse this freedom to implement their toxie mindset (i.e insulting, verb sexual harassment, threads, Obscene, etc.). There are many example where toxicity can be handled by simply detecting it. Thus, a smart use of data science is able to form a healthier

environment for virtual societies.

